---
layout: post
title:  "Prioritizing My Schedule"
categories: days
date: 2020-10-20 21:31:00
---

It has been such a busy few days that I haven't really had the time to sit down and write. It's been go go go, which isn't a bad thing, but it means I have less time to dedicate to each activity. For example, I haven't been able to find time to practice guitar in the past few days, nor work on the fake Craigslist or read The Stand. Instead I've been catching up on my visual media, aka watching movies like the Addams Family or watching TV shows like New Girl and West Wing. There is something to be said for the usefulness of TV as well as the entertainment factor. It exposes you to different viewpoints and lifestyles. West Wing is particularly wordy sometimes so there's a few new words I pick up, but I mostly watch it for because it's fun. I'd watched most of The Newsroom years ago so this isn't my first foray with Aaron Sorkin. In other news, I also took a short 3-4 mile walk today because it wasn't raining. I also made a monstrous amount of Pad Thai because I underestimated how large the noodles were gonna get. Maybe I could get some time back if I had a treadmill or if I ordered in, but I'm not trying to life my most efficient life. I'm quite happy walking along the water and cooking my own meals, but there is an unmistakable time cost associated with these things. I have no reason to believe my time is limited so for now I'll take things slow. (Sounds like famous last words, right?)