---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts About Jigsaw Puzzles"
categories: puzzles
date: 2020-11-15 18:42:00
---

I received a jigsaw puzzle the other day and I've been working my way through it and I've had a few thoughts on the subject. Here they are in no particular order:

- They're not really puzzles in the sense that I don't know how to go about solving them. From a purely mechanical standpoint, you fit the pieces together in a way that makes the same image. That's fine, but when I think of a puzzle, I usually think of a brain teaser or one of those metal puzzle things or a rubiks cube.

- I am definitely not solving this puzzle optimally. I started by selecting all the edge pieces and putting them together. Then I tried to do the sections with text on them and now I'm trying to solve discrete parts of the puzzle kind of individually. I've noticed that I have sorted through these pieces multiple times. If I had the space, I should've sorted the puzzle pieces in one go, e.g. here are the edge pieces and I've further divided them by shape. This would have a higher initially sort time, but would hopefully allow a faster solve time once sorted. 

- I was going to write something up about the math behind it, but [this post](https://www.puzzlehobby.com/Mathematics-Jigsaw-Puzzles.html) basically sums everything up better than I could. If you're curious, the post mentions a roof in Vienna and I'm like 99% sure that's the roof of the St. Stephen's Cathedral (or in German -> Stephansdom's).