---
layout: post
title:  "The Cost of Prison"
categories: prison
date: 2020-12-01 12:30:00
---

There are plenty of articles about the hidden costs and the incalculable costs of incarceration. What blows my mind, however, is the financial cost of prison. I've found this organization called the Prison Policy Initiative and they've published a few reports on the prison system as a whole, but I specifically looked at one of their reports called [Following the Money of Mass Incarceration](https://www.prisonpolicy.org/reports/money.html). This chart also shows some of the associated costs including judicial and legal costs, policing, etc. Looking at the Public Corrections Agencies section (prisons, jails, parole, probation) accounts for almost 81 Billion dollars annually. And that was in 2017! It's estimated that there are approximately 2.3 million adult inmates in the US as of 2017, which is a higher population than 15 US States and every territory/district except for Puerto Rico. Some states spend upwards of $50-60,000 per inmate per year. A news article came out recently that if NY reduced the use of solitary confinement to a maximum of 15 days (for reference, the UN classifies it as torture if it exceeds 15 days), the state could save $132 million/year. I recommend [this Frontline documentary](https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/solitary-nation/) about the elimination of solitary confinement in Maine. I've seen that the cost of attending college in NY comes out to approximately $22,000/year. Reducing the use of solitary confinement can pay for 6,000 people to attend university each year in the state of NY alone! If we could get the cost of university down like other countries do, we could send even more people. Think about all the money that's spent to keep people locked up. How many people are locked up for non-violent crimes? How many people are actually rehabilitated when they come out of prison? Are we doing enough to keep people out of prison in the first place?
