---
layout: post
title:  "Community Supported Agriculture"
categories: csa
date: 2020-11-28 14:30:00
---

Community supported agriculture is a model that allows you to 'subscribe' to a farm and receive various farm products. Sometimes it's just vegetables, other times it's eggs, dairy, or meat. Generally these are from local farms and you get what's in season. I like the idea of getting local produce over getting the same vegetable shipped over from abroad for a few reasons. There's the aspect of supporting local farms which means that money will likely stay in your community, the carbon emissions should be lower b/c you're not shipping lettuce thousands of miles, and they likely taste better b/c what you're buying doesn't have to sit in a shipping container for potentially months. I've personally never subscribed to CSA, one of the reasons being that I used to live across the street from a farmers' market. I'm looking at some local CSA and it's roughly $700 for a season for produce with an additional fee for 1/2/3 dozen eggs per week. $700 sounds steep, but the season runs for 24 weeks, meaning  you pay just under $30 for fresh vegetables. I'll copy a few examples of some of the shares delivered:


June 26th: 1 head green romaine lettuce, 1 head of chorokee lettuce, 1 head of napa cabbage, 1 bunch spinach, 1 bunch beets, 1 lb. snowpeas, 1/2 lb. garlic scapes, 2 summer squash, choice of kale or swiss chard, choice of escarole or endive frisse, choice of herbs: parsley, savory, mint or garlic chives. Extra: dandelion.
Average share weight: 13.5 pounds. 

July 31st: 1 head green cabbage, 1 head cauliflower, 1 bunch kale, 1 bunch scallion, 1 box ground cherry, 6 tomato, 1 lb. green beans, 3 eggplant, 4 pepper, 3 garlic, 2 beets, 1 bunch basil, 4 cucumber. Extras: tomatillo and small tomato.
Average weight: 21 pounds.

August 28th: 1 bunch radishes, 1 bunch swiss chard, 4 slicing tomato, 5 red pepper, 1 eggplant, 3 sweet corn, 4 leek, 2 celery root, 2 cucumber, 1.5 lb red thumb fingerling potato, 1.5 lb. dragon bean, choice of cherry tomato or ground berry, choice of herbs: thyme, savory or parsley. Extras: hot pepper, tomato.
Average weight: 14.5 pounds.


I think signing up for one of these would force me to cook with more vegetables. Regrettably, I am something of a slacker in that dimension. If you're worried about not knowing what to make with some of these, most CSAs will publish recipes tailored to the specific weeks. Portlandia has a sketch about visiting the farm to see where the chicken they eat was raised and while it was meant to be humorous, I'm sure it wouldn't hurt to have a better knowledge of where our food comes from.
