---
layout: post
title:  "Don't Pay for 95%"
categories: post
date: 2020-10-12 20:09:00
---

There was a posting on HackerNews today called ["Don't Pay for 95%"](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24755614) and the gist was that we generally buy for peak usage. E.g. cars are sitting idle for 95% of the time. I fall prey to this too, when I was looking for my first apartment in NYC, I really wanted more room than I needed because I would always think, "Well if someone comes to visit, I'd have the space for them." When really it would've cost so much more and sat empty most of the time. Sure, I could've turned it into a reading room or an office, but I paid NYC local taxes. The NYPL Main Branch has a gorgeous reading room that I may not have used if I had a private study. I like the idea of having everything I need at my fingertips, but it comes at a cost, both financially as well as spatially. Living in an apartment means that I don't have as much space as I'd have if I lived in a rambling house, but this forces me to prioritize what I really want. I can't have a physical library of books to the degree that I'd have elsewhere. I currently have somewhere in the range of 50 books and while it brings me joy to see them on my shelves, it would be utterly impractical to have a physical copy of every book I want to read. Even borrowing physical books is a more space efficient choice. I have a terrible track record with returning books on time to the library which means that I usually owe 25 cents or so to the library when I borrow a book -- still far cheaper than buying. I currently use my Kindle (paperwhite if you're curious) to read and this makes borrowing books (especially in covid times) an absolute breeze. My kindle doesn't take up any more space the more books I add and it takes up less space than a book to begin with. It does have to be charged every now and then, but that's a price I'm willing to pay for the convenience. Anyways, I think it's important to be cognizant of the times we try to buy for the most outlandish scenarios, like, "I _need_ this top of the line GPU so I can do X, Y, and Z" when in reality you might never do those things and can save hundreds to thousands of dollars.